ProjectName:Avenue Revitalization
ProjectLocation:Coimbra, PT
ProjectYear:2011

Avenida Fernao Magellaes is a wide avenue which for generations has been a northern entrance to the city.It is  parallel to Mondego river on the old flooding area. The process of urbanization and industrialization had the big impact on landscape of the street. Because of urban sprawl, buildings (mostly representing the industrial realm) started to grow on the sides of the avenue. The traffic circulation increased significantly after connecting the avenue to  the exits of the highways.  It seems that the guidelines concerning aesthetic and composition aspects of the street were not taken under consideration by decision makers of that times. As a result Avenida Fernao Magellhaes shows a heterogeneous character of industrial landscape and faces  many communication problems. As a matter of fact it doesn’t support good reception of the whole image of Coimbra city. The aim of the following elaboration is to propose a solution concerning the public interest of both inhabitants and visitors of Coimbra city in case of improving communication quality and urbanistic harmony of the “northern gate”.

For better recognition of the study space, there were several analysis undertaken. First one is a linear landscape evaluation called an “impression curve”. Basing on this method it can be concluded that the point of view of the observer can provide a lot of information about the whole image of the linear element of the landscape. In the particular case of Avenida Fernao Magellhaes it is visible which sites need the biggest intervention and what elements of the urban landscape should be changed. We can see that generally landscape evaluation of the street is hardly reaching to the 50% of scale, which means the landscape is rather poor considering all its components. 

Another method used to assess the landscape of Avenida Fernao Magellhaes was analyzing the buildings elevation line along the street. The panoramic photos of the built line was taken on each side and then processed in the graphical software so that as a result we can see the silhouette of built elements along the avenue

As an avenue is has no particular urban concept and remains full of chaos and disorder there were particular ideas suggested to improve the compositions’ harmony of this space. Firstly the line of the street with paving was remodeled so that it has clear linear shape. Linear, continuous elements are to compensate the heterogeneous line of buildings. Straight lines all along the street will improve the perception of space with feeling of perspective and stimulate the  long distance view towards the silhouette of the Coimbra University. 

Anyway it is not the only one strategy of organizing components of the space. The composition disorder along the Avenida Fernao Magellhaes is so strong that it needs more intervention. Managing the visual aspects of elevation can be achieved by renovating or rebuilding architectural object. Nevertheless this solution is too expensive and can be easily replaced by another one which is to use appropriate lines of greenery. The following design proposes covering mostly devastated or unfitting objects with groups of trees in particular modules, according to architectural vertical lines. This strategy is much cheaper than renovation of building and at the same time improves green connectivity of the city with its ecological aspects. 
